# Predicting-House-Prices-Data-Mining-Project-3-Regression-

This project focuses on regression, learning what it is and how to use it to solve problems and gather insights. The goal of this project is to accurately predict the sales price of houses in Ames, Iowa using regression machine learning models. The provided datasest comes with many features that will influence these predictions, some of which include OverallQual (the overall quality of the house materials), GrLivArea (square feet), GarageCars (how mnay cars that can fit in the garage), FullBath (number of full bathrooms), YearBuilt, Neighborhood, LotArea (lot size in square feet), KitchenQual (the quality of the kitchen), and many more. The features focus on the size of the houses and their lots, the quality of the house and the materials used to build it, and the details/amenities of the house (the number of bedrooms, bathrooms, etc.). This dataset is apart of a Kaggle competition, which includes the option to submit your results to the website to be automatically scored, which will show you if your model is effective or not. 

Regression is a supervised machine learning technique commonly used to predict a continuous, numerical target variable based on provided features. Regression models the relationship between dependent variables and independent variables to find these target values. In this project, I am using linear regression, which naturally assumes a linear relationship between the features and the target. The formula for this relationship is: y=B0​+B1​x1​+⋯+Bp​xp​+E, with the coefficients B being created through the sum of squared errors technique where the model tries to minimize the sum between actual and predicted values. Once the model is trained, it predicts new values from a weighted combination of features, for example, house prices are predicted from overall quality, living area, and more. The model is simpler by nature compared to other regression models, but it is more suspectible to outliers and it assumes linearity, which will skew your results if your variables are not linearly related. 
